My name is Richard Sutton.
I'm a scientist, studied
reinforcement all my life.
I'm at the University of Alberta
I'm at DeepMind operator.
And my spell my name is
S-U-T-T-O-N Richard is certain.
Okay. Today, I'm here
to tell you about the importance
of temporal difference learning.
Temporal difference learning is
a learning method that's
specialized for
prediction Learning.
And this makes it like
the most important
thing really for
artificial intelligence
in this century.
So we know we focused
on methods that
scale with computation
in recent years.
In the old days we had
very similar methods but
now computation is
so much greater.
Because of that, these methods
are much more impactful.
So the kind of learning
that skills the best most
thoroughly to a larger extent
with computation is
prediction learning.
You think about it.
Prediction learning means you've
tried to predict what
will happen next,
you make a prediction,
you wait and you see what
happens and then when
you find out what
happens, you learn.
And because of this,
because you just have to wait,
you don't need training sets.
You don't need people to do a lot
of work and prepare things.
You don't even need an objective.
Learning to predict is the single
most scalable kind of learning.
And temporal
difference learning is
a kind of learning
that specialize
for learning to predict.
So what might that mean?
What's special about
learning to predict?
Well, one is time passes by
and you make a prediction.
You actually make a series
of predictions every moment.
You make prediction
after prediction
after prediction and then,
you actually find out about what
the correct answers were
for all those predictions.
When you find out what
actually happens.
And so to deal with the temporal,
the consequences of
that temporal structure,
you need to have specialized
learning rules and that's
why we have temporal
difference learning.
Now I'm sure you've already also
learned or heard about methods
for supervised learning.
Supervised learning means
there is some kind of
supervisor that tells
you what the answer is.
Maybe that happens in
school, but in normal life,
we don't have supervisors
or instructors telling
us what to do.
But in prediction learning,
we do in prediction.
In prediction learning, you make
a prediction and then you
just wait and you find
out what happens.
This is so special.
So you might say
prediction learning is
supervised because you wait,
you find out what happens
and then that instructs you.
And you might say
it's also that it's
unsupervised because you didn't
have to have a supervisor,
you just waited and
you found out to
the natural course of events
what you should've said.
So I like to think sometimes
that prediction learning
is the unsupervised
supervised learning.
Temporal difference
learning, remember is
a method that's specialized
for prediction learning for
multi-step prediction learning.
Now let me say one other thing
about supervised learning.
You may often have heard
supervised learning
described as prediction learning
and it is in a sense.
The most important
sense it's not.
It's when you make
a prediction and then you're
told what the answer is.
It's not where you
actually have to
wait and see what happens.
Supervised learning is
often training sets or,
you could use
prediction learning in
the special case
where you're only
trying to predict one step,
then you can make
a prediction, wait one step,
see the result and you can
treat it as a traditional
supervised learning problem.
But most of our predictions
are not one-step predictions.
We just see what happens
like later in the day,
or a second from now,
one step. What does one step?
One step might be
considered a tenth of a
second and assure we make
predictions at a tenth of
a second but much more
important in our lives, our
longer-term predictions.
Well,
if prediction learning and
temporal difference learning
so it's an important
kind of learning,
you might expect that it might
arise in natural systems
in animals and people.
And it's almost incidental
to our development within
the artificial intelligence,
but it is true that
temporal difference learning
has played a major role in
the theory of how animals
learn and particularly
in the reward systems.
Temporal difference model is now
the standard model of
reward systems in the brain.
We can see signals in the brain
that correspond
with the TD error.
And these appear
to drive learning
just as would be predicted
by temporal difference
learning models.
So you may have heard
about dopamine,
the stand in animals
and in mammals.
The thing that carries
the temporal difference error
is the dopamine neurotransmitter.
In other animals, it's
a different transmitter like in
bees the signal that carries
the temporal difference area
is called octopamine.
But it's the same really even in
these very different
systems of animals,
insects and mammals and
primates and even in sea slugs.
So I guess I wanted to say
a little bit more about,
I'm a little bit hesitant about
talking about
the relationships between
Engineering or AI
models of learning
and psychological models of
natural learning systems.
This can be overdone but I
still am proud of the fact
that temporal
difference learning is
a serious important topic both in
AI and in psychology
and neuroscience
because it is appreciated
in each one of
these separate fields for
the very separate and
different criteria
that those fields
have for success.
In AI, we celebrate temporal
difference learning because
it's a powerful kind of
learning that's very
widely applicable.
And in neuroscience, they
celebrate temporal
difference learning
because it accurately models
predicts animal behavior.
And so all these things are
really prediction Learning.
Prediction learning
is the key to AI,
prediction learning is the most
important single kind
of learning.
And temporal
difference learning is
a specialized methods
that take advantage of
the temporal structure
of learning to predict.
Thank you very much.
There's some material.